source: https://zjnu2017.github.io/OOAD/reading/Object.Oriented.Analysis.and.Design.with.Applications.3rd.Edition.by.Booch.pdf

                  *** Where software complexity comes from ***

• The complexity of the problem domain

These problems usually spring from the "communication gap" that exists between
the users of a system and its developers. Users generally find it very hard to
give precise expression to their needs in a form that developers can
understand. This occurs because each group generally lacks expertise in the
domain of the other.

We cannot afford to scrap an existing system every time its requirements
change. Planned or not, systems tend to evolve over time.

•  The difficulty of managing the development process

"The task of the software development team is to engineer the illusion of
simplicity."

We strive to write less code by inventing clever and powerful mechanisms that
give us this illusion of simplicity, as well as by reusing frameworks of
existing designs and code. However, the sheer volume of a system's requirements
is sometimes inescapable and forces us either to write a large amount of new
software or to reuse existing software in novel ways. 

Having more developers means more complex communication and hence more
difficult coordination. With a team of developers
the key management challenge is always to maintain a unity and integrity of
design.

• The flexibility possible through software

Software offers the ultimate flexibility, so it is possible for a developer to
express almost any kind of abstraction. This flexibility turn out to be an
incredibly seductive property, however, because it also forces the developer to
craft virtually all the primitive building blocks on which these higher-level
abstraction stand.

• The problems of characterizing the behaviour of discrete systems

When we say that a system is described by a continuous function, we are saying
that it can contain no hidden surprises. Small changes in inputs will always
cause correspondingly small changes in outputs. On the other hand, discrete
systems by their very nature have a finite number of possible states.

** We try to design our systems with a separation of concerns, so that the
behaviour in one part of a system has minimal impact on the behaviour in
another. **

Each event external to a software system has the potential of placing that
system in a new state. Since we have neither the mathematical tools nor the
intellectual capacity to model the complete behaviour of large discrete
systems, we must be content with acceptable levels of confidence regarding
their correctness.

                *** The five attributes of a complex system ***

• Hierarchic structure

The fact that many complex systems have a nearly decomposable, hierarchic
structure is a major facilitating factor enabling us to understand, describe,
and even "see" such systems and their parts.

"It's important to realize that the architecture of a complex system is a
function of its components as well as the hierarchic relationships among these
components. All system have subsystems and all systems are part of larger
systems. The value added by a system must come from the relationships between
the parts, not from the parts per se."

• Relative primitives

The choice of what components in a system are primitive is relatively arbitrary
and is largely up to the discretion of the observer of the system.

• Separation of concerns

Intracomponent linkages are generally stronger than intercomponent linkages.
This fact hast the effect of separating the high-frequency dynamics of the
components (involving the internal structure of the components), from the low
frequency dynamics (involving interaction among components).

The difference between intra and intercomponent interactions provides a clear
separation of concerns among the various parts of a system, making it possible
to study each part in relative isolation.

• Common patterns

Hierarchic systems are usually composed of only a few different kinds of
subsystems in various combinations and arrangements. Por ejemplo, el caso de la
anatomia de diferentes animales, podemos distinguir que todos tienen diferentes
sistemas como el sistema digestivo o el nervioso, pero en esencia todos los
sistemas son solo colecciones de diferentes organos.

• Stable intermediate forms

A complex system that works in invariably found to have evolved from a simple
system that worked. A complex system designed from scratch never works. You
have to start over, beginning with a working simple system.

"As system evolve, objects that were once considered complex become the
primitive objects on which more complex systems are built."

                *** The five attributes of a complex system ***

Hay diferentes formas de descomponer un problema segun jerarquia. Podemos
descomponer un sistema en base a su estructura, por ejemplo, en el caso de un
avion, podemos descomponer un avion en los diferentes sistemas que lo componen,
por ejemplo el sistema de propulsion o el sistema de control de vuelo. A este
tipo de descomposicion se le conoce como "part of". Otro tipo de descomposicion
es el tipo "is a", en el que se identifican las variantes de un mismo concepto.
El autor conoce a estas formas de categorizacion como "class structure" y
"object structure" respectivamente.

NOTA: Con los terminos clase y objeto el autor no se esta refiriendo a las
clases y objetos a las que estamos acostumbrado en el codigo. Esta hablando de
clases y objetos en un nivel de abstraccion mas alto.

Class structure -> Forma de los componenetes independientes.
Object structure -> Forma en la que diferentes componentes se relacionan.

                        *** Bringing order to chaos ***

We must consider disciplined ways to master complexity instead of relying only
on divine inspiration.

"Rather than decomposing the problem into steps, we identify entities which
derive from the vocabulary of the problem domain."

                                 *** Resumen ***

• Podemos descomponer un sistema complejo en base a las preguntas "es un" y "es
parte de". Esto en combinacion con las 5 cualidades principales de los sistemas
complejos permite identificar una forma canonica de ver estos sistemas, que
vendria siendo una arquitectura del sistema.
